Alzheimer’s disease is the sixth leading cause of death in the United States and is the only cause of death in the top 10 that we cannot currently prevent, cure, or even slow. With the American population aging, the overall number of people suffering from Alzheimer’s is expected to grow almost threefold to nearly 15 million Americans—and could cost more than $1 trillion per year—by 2050. 

Hillary Clinton is proposing a groundbreaking commitment to preventing, effectively treating, and making a cure possible for Alzheimer’s disease by 2025. Her plan will:

    Invest $2 billion per year in research for Alzheimer’s and related disorders. This past year, the National Institutes of Health (NIH) invested $586 million in Alzheimer’s research, less than 1 percent of the annual cost of this disease. As part of a new investment in NIH, Hillary would rapidly ramp up our investment to $2 billion—the amount leading researchers have determined is necessary to prevent and treat the disease and make a cure possible by 2025.

    Ensure a reliable stream of funding between now and 2025. Just as important as increasing our investment, Hillary will fight to make funding predictable and reliable between now and 2025 so that researchers can work consistently toward effective treatments and pursue long-term research that will pay off down the road.

    Establish a plan of action with leading researchers and health experts. Hillary will appoint a top-flight team to oversee this initiative and will consult regularly with leading researchers to ensure progress toward ending Alzheimer's. At each stage, her plan will embrace a range of approaches to discovering and advancing effective treatments.

Hillary understands the enormous weight that Alzheimer’s disease imposes on a growing number of Americans and their families. To help alleviate the burden, Hillary’s plan will:

    Cover comprehensive Alzheimer’s care-planning services and help coordinate care among physicians. Beyond the difficulty of planning for Alzheimer’s care, the disease complicates the management of other conditions. The simple act of sitting down together—primary physician, patient, and caregiver—to map out a treatment plan can have a positive impact on a patient’s health. Under Hillary’s plan, Medicare will cover comprehensive Alzheimer’s care-planning sessions, as well as the cost of properly documenting every diagnosis and care plan.

    Help protect loved ones who wander. At least six in 10 Alzheimer’s sufferers will wander from home at some point in a state of profound disorientation—leaving them vulnerable and potentially unsafe. Hillary will work with Congress to reauthorize the Missing Alzheimer’s Disease Patient Alert Program, a cost-effective federal program with a reported 98 percent success rate in finding individuals reported missing.

    Ensure our seniors are aware and can take advantage of their Medicare benefits. Although Alzheimer’s cannot yet be cured, proper diagnosis and treatment can make a vital difference in quality of life—and allow patients to play an active role in planning for their future. Hillary will direct the Social Security Administration to raise awareness about the wellness visits, cognitive screenings, and other preventive benefits covered by Medicare. 

Hillary’s plan builds on her a long record of working across the aisle on behalf of patients and families dealing with Alzheimer’s disease. In the U.S. Senate, she consistently pushed for greater funding for Alzheimer’s research, including federally funded stem cell research. She also co-chaired the Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer’s Disease and introduced legislation to restore funding for the Alzheimer’s Association 24/7 Contact Center and for Alzheimer’s disease demonstration grants.







 It’s time to guarantee paid family and medical leave in America. 

Hillary will:

    Guarantee up to 12 weeks of paid family and medical leave.

    Ensure at least a two-thirds wage replacement rate for workers.

    Pay for paid leave by making the wealthiest pay their fair share—not raising taxes on working families.

“For many workers, staying home to take care of a sick child or an aging parent means losing a paycheck—or worse, even losing a job. That is an impossible choice we shouldn’t ask anyone to make—and yet American workers are forced to make it every day.”

Hillary, NOVEMBER 9, 2015

Today, the United States is the only developed nation in the world with no guaranteed paid leave of any kind. In fact, only 13 percent of American workers have access to paid family leave—with the lowest paid workers up to four times less likely to have access than the highest paid. 

Hillary has long believed it’s past time for that to change. In an economy where both men and women typically hold down a paying job and women are breadwinners in two-thirds of families with children, paid family and medical leave is core to our economic growth and competitiveness. Paid leave helps families remain economically stable, benefits children’s early health and development by allowing parents to care for their newborn children, and reduces employee turnover. The availability of paid leave bolsters our economy by allowing more Americans to participate fully in the workforce and ensures that we don’t leave any talent on the sidelines.  

As president, Hillary will:

    Guarantee up to 12 weeks of paid family and medical leave. Under Hillary’s plan, workers—men and women—will be guaranteed up to 12 weeks of paid family leave to care for a new child or a seriously ill family member, such as an elderly, ailing parent or a spouse with cancer, and up to 12 weeks of medical leave to recover from a serious illness or injury of their own.

    Enable hard working Americans to support their families economically while on leave. To ensure families remain stable and supported during both joyful and stressful times—like when a new baby arrives, a worker gets cancer, or an employee must care for an elderly parent suffering from Alzheimer’s—Hillary’s plan will provide financial support to workers taking leave. Under her plan, workers who have met a minimum number of hours the previous year will receive a percentage of their income during leave.

    Ensure at least a two-thirds wage replacement rate for workers. Hillary’s plan will ensure that the wage replacement rate is at least two-thirds of a worker’s current wages, up to a ceiling, so that low-income and middle class workers receive the financial support they need to take the leave they need.

    No new business or employee mandate. Hillary’s plan will not impose additional costs on businesses, including small businesses. There is no business or employee mandate to pay for leave, nor is there a payroll tax to pay for it.

    Fund paid leave by making the wealthy pay their fair share, not by increasing taxes on working families. Hillary strongly believes that middle class families deserve a raise, not a tax increase. American families need paid leave, and to get there, Hillary will ask the wealthiest Americans to pay their fair share. She’ll ensure that the plan is fully paid for by a combination of tax reforms impacting the most fortunate.

Paid leave is crucial for families and critical to economic growth.


For too long, issues like paid leave have been dismissed as just “women’s issues” or “family issues,” but those days are over—paid leave is critical to economic growth and Hillary’s goal of raising incomes for working families. The availability of paid leave bolsters our economy by allowing more Americans to participate fully in the workforce and ensures that in America we leave no talent on the sidelines. 


As Hillary said in a recent major economic speech, “The movement of women into the American workforce over the past 40 years was responsible for more than $3.5 trillion in economic growth. But that progress has stalled. The United States used to rank seventh out of 24 advanced countries in women’s labor force participation. By 2013, we had dropped to 19th. That represents a lot of unused potential for our economy and for American families. Studies show that nearly a third of this decline relative to other countries is because they’re expanding family-friendly policies like paid leave and we are not. We should be making it easier for Americans to be both good workers and good parents and caregivers. Women who want to work should be able to do so without worrying every day about how they’re going to take care of their children, or what will happen if a family member gets sick.”


Hillary has a record of fighting for families:

    After graduating from Yale Law School, she went to work at the Children’s Defense Fund. Rather than going to a prestigious law firm, she became an advocate for women, families, and children. She went to work at the Children’s Defense Fund, where she helped expand access to education for children with disabilities.

    As first lady of Arkansas, she championed children and families. Hillary helped start Arkansas Advocates for Children and Families, helped expand the Arkansas Children’s Hospital, and helped bring the Home Instruction for Parents of Preschool Youngsters (HIPPY) program to Arkansas—one of the most innovative parents as first teachers programs in the nation.

    As first lady of the United States, she helped win the fight for Family Medical Leave Act and fought for children. The first President Bush vetoed the FMLA—twice. When Bill Clinton became President, Hillary was on the front lines working to ensure the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) was the first bill he signed into law. She went on to make her mark as a First Lady who fought for children by helping to pass the Children’s Health Insurance Program, advocating for greater investments in child care and early learning, and working to pass the Adoption and Safe Families Act.

    As senator from New York, she fought for paid leave. Hillary helped expand FMLA to wounded soldiers and their families. And in her campaign for president in 2007, she proposed a national paid leave program and called for guaranteeing paid parental leave for all federal employees. 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
     Women’s issues are family issues, economic issues, and crucial to our future competitiveness.

Hillary will:

    Ensure equal pay for women.

    Defend women’s health and reproductive rights against attacks.

    Fight for paid family leave and affordable child care.

“Too often, these are called women’s issues. Well, I am a proud lifelong fighter for women’s issues, because I firmly believe what’s good for women is good for America. … As far as I’m concerned, any issue that affects women’s lives and futures is a women’s issue.”

Hillary, SEPTEMBER 5, 2015

America has taken tremendous strides when it comes to expanding opportunity for women—but our fight is far from over. Women still earn less than men on the job. Many women still face barriers to entering and advancing in the workforce, and the ability of women to make their own health decisions is under assault. Hillary believes that issues that affect women’s lives are not just “women’s issues”—they are family issues, they are economic issues, and they are crucial to our future competitiveness. She has been fighting for women and girls her entire career, and she’s just getting started.

Read this: This is what it looks like when a presidential candidate truly understands reproductive rights.

As president, Hillary will:

    Work to close the pay gap. Women earn less than men across our economy—and women of color often lose out the most. Hillary will promote pay transparency across the economy and work to pass the Paycheck Fairness Act—a bill she introduced as senator—to give women the tools they need to fight workplace discrimination.

    Fight for paid family leave. No one should have to choose between keeping their job and taking care of a sick family member, and no parent should have to go back to work right after they welcome their newborn baby. A quarter of all women in America return to work within ten days of having a child because they have no paid leave. The United States is the only country in the developed world without guaranteed paid leave of any kind. That has to change.

    Make quality, affordable childcare a reality for families. We need to recognize that quality, affordable child care is not a luxury—it’s a growth strategy. Women are now the primary or co-breadwinners in two-thirds of families with children. But out-of-pocket child care costs have soared by nearly 25 percent during the past decade. We need to make investing in child care a national priority—including supporting on-campus child care and scholarships to meet the needs of the nearly 5 million American college students who are also parents.

    Increase the minimum wage. The current minimum wage isn’t enough for Americans to meet their basic needs. Because women represent nearly two-thirds of all minimum wage workers, many women are living that reality every day. A higher minimum wage will help close the gender pay gap, lift millions of women out of poverty, and have a ripple effect across our economy. While we work to raise the federal minimum wage, Hillary will also support state and local efforts to go above the federal floor.

    Defend and enhance Social Security. Hillary believes Social Security is an American success story. She is committed to defending it from Republican attacks and enhancing it to meet new realities—especially for women. The poverty rate among widowed and divorced women who are 65 years or older is nearly 70 percent higher than for the elderly population as a whole. This unacceptably high poverty rate is partly due to an unfair policy: Two-breadwinner families can face steep reductions in their benefits when a spouse dies. It’s time to change that.

    Protect women’s health and reproductive rights. Women’s personal health decisions should be made by a woman, her family, and her faith, with the counsel of her doctor. Hillary will stand up to Republican attempts to defund Planned Parenthood, which would restrict access to critical health care services, like cancer screenings, contraception, and safe, legal abortion. She will fight to protect the Affordable Care Act, which bans insurance companies from discriminating against women and guarantees 47 million women and counting access to preventive care.

    Confront violence against women. One in five women in America is sexually assaulted while in college. Twenty-two percent of women experience severe physical violence by an intimate partner at some point in their lifetime. American women are 11 times more likely to be murdered with guns than women in other high-income countries. It’s time to address violence against women—and Hillary will put forward bold plans to do that.

    Promote women’s rights around the globe. As secretary of state, Hillary made it a priority to advance the rights of women and girls around the globe. In far too many parts of the world, women are still held back by social, economic, and legal barriers. One in every three girls in developing countries is married before the age of 18, and laws in 79 countries still restrict the type of work women can do. Hillary knows these laws hold societies back, and that promoting gender equality around the world—from ensuring that girls have equal access to education, to making women safe from sexual violence, to promoting equal economic opportunity—will promote a more just, secure, and prosperous global community.

Hillary has a record of fighting for women and girls:

    After graduating from Yale Law School, Hillary chose not to take a prestigious job at a law firm. Instead, she became an advocate for women, families, and children. She went to work at the Children’s Defense Fund, where she helped expand access to education for children with disabilities.

    As first lady of Arkansas, she helped start Arkansas Advocates for Children and Families.

    As first lady of the United States, Hillary was a staunch advocate for women and children’s issues. She led the U.S. delegation to the U.N. Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing, where she proclaimed that “women’s rights are human rights.” She also advocated for the Family and Medical Leave Act, which provides leave for new parents or those with a sick loved one, and she worked to increase funding for child care.

    As senator from New York, Hillary championed access to emergency contraception and voted in favor of strengthening a woman’s right to make her own health care decisions. She also championed the Paycheck Fairness Act and co-sponsored the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act in an effort to achieve equal pay and help close the wage gap. She fought for legislation to guarantee paid sick leave and paid parental leave for all federal employees.

    As secretary of state, Hillary made women’s rights a cornerstone of U.S. foreign policy. She created the now-permanent position of ambassador-at-large for global women’s issues and helped launch the first U.S. strategy on women, peace, and security. She also advanced women’s economic empowerment, championed programs to prevent and respond to gender-based violence, and spearheaded public-private partnerships to improve the status of women and girls.









 Every American should be able to learn the skills they need to compete and succeed.

Hillary will:

    Incentivize businesses to invest directly in their workers and provide on-the-job training.

    Provide a tax credit for businesses that create high-quality apprenticeships that lead to jobs.

    Expand programs that allow federal student aid to be used for high-quality career and lifelong learning programs with promising or proven records. 

“If you do your part, then you ought to be able to get ahead. You ought to be able to reap the rewards of your work. And when everybody does his or her part, then America gets ahead.”

Hillary, JUNE 17, 2015

Americans need to be able to get ahead and stay ahead—that means putting the next generation of well-paying jobs within reach for everyone who is willing to work hard.

Hillary believes that every American—especially young people—should be able to learn the skills they need to get hired, seize new opportunities at work, get promoted, and contribute in a 21st-century workforce.

Hillary’s workforce and skills agenda will help people get good jobs with good wages throughout their careers.

    For workers and job-seekers, this means providing more robust, coherent, and accessible training programs and resources that are up to date for 21st-century technology and that lead to good jobs and lifelong skills and credentials.

    For training providers, Hillary will ensure that good programs that provide high quality training, including at community colleges, are given the support they need to scale up and respond to the needs of the local workforce and employers—while insisting on accountability, transparency, and results.

    For government, Hillary will make sure federal, state, and local workforce development resources are used to bring together workers, unions, employers and training providers at every level, in order to prepare workers for good jobs.

    For employers, this plan encourages businesses to invest in their workers for the long term through training, apprenticeships, and creating good jobs.

As part of this agenda, Hillary is calling for a tax credit for businesses that hire apprentices, providing much needed on-the-job training—especially for young Americans.

    Her plan would put forward a tax credit for businesses of $1,500 per apprentice and would insist on accountability for employment and earnings outcomes for programs receiving the credit. Hillary’s plan will also grant a bonus on that tax credit to businesses for providing opportunities specifically for young people.









 A world-class education for every child in every community.

Hillary will:

    Make high-quality education available to every child—in every ZIP code—in America.

    Ensure that teachers receive the training, mentorship, and support they need to succeed and thrive in the classroom.

    Ensure students with disabilities have the resources and support they need throughout their school years.

“We need a president who will fight for strong public schools in every ZIP code and every community across the country. I want to be that president. I want to fight for you and for educators, and for students and for families. I think they go together.”

Hillary, JULY 27, 2015


Hillary believes that every child, no matter his or her background, should be guaranteed a high-quality education. That's why she has been working to improve and support our public schools for decades. As first lady of Arkansas, she chaired the Arkansas Educational Standards Commission, fighting to raise academic standards, increase teacher salaries, and reduce class sizes. As first lady of the United States, she chaired the first-ever convening on Hispanic children and youth, which focused on improving access to educational opportunities. And, as a U.S. senator, she served on the Senate Health, Education and Labor Committee, as a key member shaping the No Child Left Behind Act, with the hopes that it would bring needed resources and real accountability to improve educational opportunities for our most disadvantaged students. Hillary knows that we have real work to do to ensure every child can fulfill his or her God-given potential. That is why she will fight for policies that:

    Make high-quality education a priority for every child in America. The passage of the Every Student Succeeds Act shows what’s possible when Congress puts politics aside and works together to improve our education system. While the legislation is not perfect, Hillary believes it will help give states and teachers flexibility to serve the needs of their students, while ensuring schools are held accountable for raising the achievement of all children—especially low-income students, students of color, English Language Learners, and students with disabilities. The bill will allow communities to strike a balance on testing as a measure of student success, require districts and states to take action to turn around struggling schools, and expand resources for teacher development, early childhood education, and high-quality public charter schools. Hillary will work to make sure this law is implemented effectively and that we make the necessary investments—like universal pre-K and other early learning programs—to give every child a strong start and access to a world-class education.

    Support educators. Hillary knows good teachers are key to improving student learning. But we don’t do enough to ensure that teachers receive the training, mentorship, and support they need to succeed and thrive in the classroom. Hillary will listen to teachers, invest in their training and professional development, and recruit the best and brightest into the profession.

    Improve student outcomes. Hillary believes we can do more to meet the needs of students by providing opportunities geared toward their individual skills and educational goals. She will work to ensure students with disabilities, in particular, have the resources and support they need throughout their school years. 
    