
Defending the Constitution of the United States of America
RestoreConstitution1FINAL

    Ted Cruz has spent a lifetime fighting to defend the Constitution.
    Our nation’s founding document and the supreme law of the land was crafted by our founding fathers to act as chains to bind the mischief of government and to protect the liberties endowed to us by our Creator.
    Unfortunately, recent administrations have defied the Constitution and the rule of law, and as a result we are less free.
    We need to restore the Constitution as our standard. We need to protect the people by rolling back the federal government to the functions the Constitution sets out. We need to give power back to the states and the people so that we remain a land where liberty can flourish.

Proven Record
RestoreConstitution2FINAL

    Stood for Americans’ First Amendment rights against Democrats who sought to repeal our free speech rights.
    Defended Hobby Lobby and Conestoga Wood Specialties against Obamacare’s contraception mandate.
    Fought and won a landmark victory at the Supreme Court in Medellin v. Texas; protected U.S. sovereignty against 90 foreign nations and the president to ensure the United States is not subject to rulings of the “World Court.”
    Led the way to preserve the words “under God” in the Pledge of Allegiance at the U.S. Supreme Court.
    Successfully defended the constitutionality of the Texas Ten Commandments monument, winning a 5-4 landmark decision before the U.S. Supreme Court.
    Successfully defended the words “under God” in the Texas Pledge of Allegiance and Texas schools’ moment of silence law in federal district court.
    Galvanized national support for Houston pastors who had been subpoenaed by the City of Houston and forced to turn in their sermons.
    Supported students’ right to display banners containing religious content at school sporting events.
    Fought to help the Boy Scouts of America reverse a district court ruling barring them from leasing a public park.
    Led the fight to protect citizens’ Second Amendment rights against Democrats and Republicans in Congress.
    Defended 31 states in District of Columbia v. Heller where the U.S. Supreme Court overturned a ban on firearms in a 5-4 landmark decision.
    Cosponsored a resolution urging the president not to sign the UN Arms Treaty, which would have subordinated the Second Amendment rights of American citizens to global interests.
    Called for a special prosecutor to investigate the targeting of conservatives by the IRS.






Protecting the Second Amendment Rights of Americans
2ndAmendment1FINAL

    Citizens’ Second Amendment rights make us more safe, secure, and free.
    The Second Amendment is not simply about hunting or target practice. It’s about protecting our lives, families, and homes.
    When citizens cease to have the right to defend ourselves, we cease to be free. And now, more than ever, as radical Islamic terrorists seek to attack Americans on our own soil, Americans’ right to protect our families and communities is all the more critical to our safety and freedom.
    Ted Cruz has been a tireless defender of the Second Amendment. From successfully protecting law-abiding citizens’ Second Amendment rights at the Supreme Court to defeating legislation that sought to take away this right, Ted Cruz has always championed Americans’ right to keep and bear arms.

Proven Record
2ndAmendment2FINAL (1)

    Led the fight against Congress’ legislation to restrict the Second Amendment rights of law-abiding Americans.
    Authored legislation to strengthen citizens’ Second Amendment rights and allow interstate firearms sales.
    Defended 31 states in District of Columbia v. Heller where the U.S. Supreme Court overturned a ban on firearms in a 5-4 landmark decision.
    Awarded the NRA’s 2010 Carter-Knight Freedom Fund, which “rewards exemplary activities in the support and protection of the right to Keep and Bear Arms” for his work in the Heller and McDonald cases.
    Argued against unreasonable and burdensome gun restrictions before the U.S. Court of Appeals.
    Recognized by NRA executive Vice President Wayne LaPierre who observed, “Ted Cruz is one of our nation’s leading defenders of the Second Amendment. For over a decade, Ted has fought tirelessly to defend our constitutional right to keep and bear arms, and his leadership was absolutely critical to our major victories before the U.S. Supreme Court.”
    Endorsed by Gun Owners of America Chairman Tim Macy, who said “We need a stalwart defender of the Second Amendment in the White House, and Ted Cruz will help shoulder the burden of fighting against the gun grabbers dedicated to eviscerating the Second Amendment.”





Secure the Border
Border Security is National Security
Immigration1FINAL

    Border security is national security. We need to secure the border once and for all. We need to stop Obama’s amnesty and enforce the rule of law. And we need to reform legal immigration to protect American workers.
    It’s not that we don’t know how to solve illegal immigration. What is missing is the political will to get it done. As President, Ted Cruz will do what he says. He will stop illegal immigration. He will build a wall that works, triple border security, and put in place the surveillance and biometric tracking to secure the border.
    Ted Cruz will end Obama’s amnesty on day one, will end catch-and-release, increase deportations, stop sanctuary policies, and strengthen E-verify.
    In order to protect our national security and serve American workers, he will suspend and audit H-1B visas and halt any increase in legal immigration so long as American unemployment remains unacceptably high.
    Cruz led the fight in Congress to defeat the Gang of Eight amnesty bill, he has introduced strong legislation to stop illegal immigration, and he has outlined a detailed immigration plan to protect Americans.

Proven Record
Immigration2FINAL

    Introduced two bills to protect Americans from an influx of refugees who could be a national security risk, including legislation barring refugees from terrorist-ridden regions and legislation to recognize governors’ authority to protect the citizens in their states by rejecting to resettle refugees in their state.
    When Cruz came to the Senate in 2013, he coalesced conservatives across the country to defeat the Gang of Eight bill that failed to secure the border and would have granted amnesty to millions who came to the United States illegally.
    During the Gang of Eight fight, Cruz offered a series of amendments, including measures to prevent citizenship for those here illegally, to block illegals’ access to federal, state, or local public assistance benefits, secure the border, triple the size of the Border Patrol, and implement a biometric entry-exit system.
    Introduced Kate’s Law to establish a 5-year minimum sentence for those who illegally reenter the country.

    Introduced with Jeff Sessions the American Jobs First Act of 2015, to reform the H-1B program, curb abuse, and protect American workers.
    Proposed a number of measures to defund President Obama’s amnesty and prevent him from expanding it.



ReinWashington1FINAL

    To shrink the size and power of the federal government, the Cruz Five for Freedom plan eliminates the IRS, the Department of Education, the Department of Energy, the Department of Commerce, and the Department of Housing and Urban Development.  As President, Ted Cruz will appoint heads of each of those agencies whose sole charge will be to wind them down and determine whether any programs need to be preserved.
    Ted Cruz will empower the people by reducing the alphabet soup of Agencies, Bureaus, Commissions, and other programs that prop up special interests, at the taxpayer’s expense.  The Cruz Five for Freedom Spending Plan identifies an initial 25 programs.
    The Cruz plan re-institutes President Reagan’s Grace Commission to assess federal spending levels and evaluate areas of waste and fraud.  Ted Cruz would appoint private-sector leaders to serve on a commission that, as President Reagan put it, would “work like blood hounds” to improve government efficiency.  The original Grace Commission report recommended 2,478 “cost-cutting, revenue-enhancing” suggestions, without raising taxes, weakening defense, or harming social welfare.
    A President Cruz will hold Congress accountable by enacting a strong Balanced Budget Amendment and requiring that a majority of members approve any major, cost-inducing regulation. And he will reduce costs by instituting a hiring freeze and federal pay reforms.

Proven Record
ReinWashington2FINAL

    Fought to protect citizens’ free speech against unlawful and unjust targeting and designations by the IRS.
    Opposed budget increases that failed to bring about meaningful spending reforms.
    Advocated for meaningful reforms to boost economic growth, including repealing Obamacare, deregulation, and expansion of energy production to take on the staggering unemployment conditions in the country.
    Opposed raising the debt ceiling without any meaningful reforms to the out-of-control Washington spending.
    Voted against establishment politicians’ Christmas handouts to K-Street.
    Opposed sugar subsidies and favoring a few over the American taxpayer.
    Voted to repeal the Renewable Fuel Standard so that all can compete on an equal footing.
    Opposed budget deals that reauthorized the Export-Import bank, a handmaiden of the Washington Cartel.

 

    Life, Marriage, and family are the fundamental building blocks of society.
    Life is a precious gift from God. We must cherish and defend it. Without life, there is no liberty; without life, there is no pursuit of happiness.
    Marriage is a sacrament between one man and one woman, it has strengthened societies for millennia, and we must uphold the truth of marriage.
    Extreme leftists — activist judges, the Obama Administration, and academic elites — are trying to extinguish these most fundamental, God-given rights.
    Ted Cruz will preserve life, marriage, and the family, and he has the record to prove it. If Ted is elected president, he will instruct his Attorney General to investigate Planned Parenthood on day one.  And rather than enacting policies that tear down these pillars of our society, he will work to restore a culture of life, marriage, and family.

Proven Record
Social2FINAL

    Fought to take away taxpayer dollars from Planned Parenthood.
    Led the charge on behalf of 13 states to successfully defend a federal law that bans partial birth abortion before the U.S. Supreme Court.
    Advocated for an investigation into abortion practices in the U.S. to prevent the atrocities witnessed in Kermit Gosnell’s facility from ever happening again.
    Joined 18 states in successfully defending the New Hampshire parental-notification law before the U.S. Supreme Court.
    Successfully defended Texas’s Rider 8, which prohibits state funds for groups that provide abortions.
    Authored legislation and a constitutional amendment in the Senate to prevent federal courts from further interfering with any state’s authority to define marriage.
    Introduced legislation to protect the right of states to define marriage, without intrusion by unelected federal judges.
    Defended Texas’s marriage laws when a state court attempted to recognize a Vermont civil union.



